# Research Papers
--------------------
### 1) Kalivarapu, V. K., MacAllister, A., Civitate, A., Hoover, M. T., ***Thompkins, P.***, Smith, J., Hoyle, J. (February 2015). Gameday football visualization experience on dissimilar virtual reality platforms. Paper presented at 2015 International Society for Optics and Photonics (SPIE) Electronic Imaging, San Francisco, CA.

**Abstract:**

> College football recruiting is a competitive process. Athletic administrations attempt to gain an edge by bringing recruits to a home game, highlighting the atmosphere unique to campus. This is however not always possible since most recruiting efforts happen off-season. So, they relate the football game experience through video recordings and visits to football facilities. While these substitutes provide a general idea of a game, they cannot capture the feeling of playing while cheered on by a crowd of 55,000 people. To address this challenge and improve the recruitment process, the Iowa State University (ISU) athletic department and the Virtual Reality Applications Center (VRAC) teamed up to build an alternative to the game-day experience using the world’s highest resolution six-sided virtual reality (VR) environment - the C6, and a portable low-cost head-mounted display (HMD) system. This paper presents techniques used in the development of the immersive and portable VR environments followed by validation of the work through quantifying immersion and presence through a formal user study. Results from the user study indicate that both the HMD and C6 are an improvement over the standard practice of showing videos to convey the atmosphere of an ISU Cyclone football game. In addition, both the C6 and HMD were scored similar in immersion and presence categories. This indicates that the low-cost portable HMD version of the application produces minimal trade off in experience for a fraction of the cost. 

### 2) ***Thompkins, P.***, Baker, L., DeWyngaert, L., (April 2016). Paper or Pixel? The Influence of Text Format and Metacognition on Student Reading Comprehension. Poster presented at 2016 American Educational Research Association, Washington, DC.

**Objectives/Abstract:**

> Textbooks are a staple of many an academic curriculum. As digital technologies have become more advanced and commonly available, they have been gradually integrated into classrooms. Computers, tablets, and electronic books, or e-books, have been incorporated into school settings as alternatives to the heavier, bulkier texts of past generations. A number of studies have been conducted comparing the influence of print and digital text formats on reading comprehension, with mixed results. This study aimed to resolve some of these inconsistencies by incorporating a within-subjects comparison alongside measurements of metacognition and monitoring accuracy. It was anticipated that should a difference exist between print and electronic formats, these differences will correlate with the metacognitive and monitoring accuracy metrics.

### 3) Overby, C., ***Thompkins, P.***, Lehmann, H., Chute, C., Sheffield, J., (November 2017). Value of Genetics-informed Drug Dosing Guidance in Pregnant Women: A Needs Assessment with Obstetric Healthcare Providers at Johns Hopkins. Paper presented at 2017 American Medical Informatics Professionals Annual Symposium, Washington, DC.

**Abstract:**

> In order to better understand the potential value of genetics-informed drug dose guidance to obstetric healthcare providers at Johns Hopkins we administered a web-based needs assessment survey. The survey included questions about: 1) experience with adjusting drug doses during pregnancy; 2) comfort prescribing medications to pregnant women with chronic conditions; 3) awareness and use of genetics-informed dosing guidance; and 4) perceived value of access to services to provide genetics-informed dosing guidance. Among thirty-one respondents, 81% indicated an interest in access to genetics-informed drug dose guidance, particularly a mobile or electronic health record (EHR) application. It was indicated, however, that genetics is one of many characteristics that influence dose adjustments during pregnancy. This study motivates future research to help obstetric healthcare providers tailor drug dose to individual patients based upon models integrating multiple patient characteristics, including genetics.
